Chloe Lannert: Yes, okay, thank you all for filling out the class roster form. Everything looks good there. I think I've got everyone. If you have any additional part-time participants who you'd like on basecamp. Please let me know, brio. I got all of your folks and a couple other people, but if you haven't communicated with me about part-time participants, I think. May also sent me
Chloe Lannert: their people. Just let me know in a base camp Ping or on email, and I'll get them looped into the project. Number 2.
Chloe Lannert: Full time participants. Make sure you fill out those welcome kit forms. We are coming up on the deadline for fulfillment, to be able to cover those. So get in those requests as soon as possible to make sure you actually get that swag. Number 3 retreat registration, putting out another boost there. If you can make the time to be there for the weekend. It really is an incredible experience that we want to share with you all. So I've got 11 people registered at the moment.
Chloe Lannert: But if anyone can make the time there, please do. Yeah.
NSG: Oh, did did Chloe freeze.
Chloe Lannert: I.
NSG: Oh!
Chloe Lannert: I'm here. I can. I can hear you.
NSG: Oh, you're back now. You froze for a hot second. There, all right.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, Andrew, what's up?
Andrew Fernandes: Yes, you guys mentioned to clear next week. Because we're gonna have a lot of techstars sessions. When we're gonna know the exact schedule for that. We want to plan. Accordingly.
Chloe Lannert: Today.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, program schedules for weeks. One through 4 will be out today in a Google calendar.
Chloe Lannert: So now that we've got everyone's emails from the class roster. We can share that around
Chloe Lannert: and then goal setting packets. I've seen a few more come in today. I'll get time with you scheduled at some point today.
NSG: Cut out again, didn't she?
NSG: Yep, alright, we'll we'll we'll troubleshoot that. I'll have her write up the rest. I'm just gonna do it. Live jump right in. So oh, Chloe.
NSG: we we lost you again. So I think you should write up whatever else you were gonna say, and then we'll let you sort out the the lag issue
NSG: all right. Well, good to have y'all back.
NSG: I think some of you heard from our Jake session on Friday that
NSG: for the 1st time ever I didn't even make it through part one of jobs to be done yet when we were getting into it last week, which is a good thing. So I spent the weekend refining a few things, consolidating some stuff so that I could make sure we get through the rest of the content today. In prep for our last session tomorrow. So I can do a live demonstration of some interview techniques.
NSG: So before I start, though. 1 1 thing I wanted to say is what we're gonna accomplish before the end of this time is I want to have at least some of you. Talk the group
NSG: through what you submitted over the weekend, and last night, with respect to your screening criteria and learning objectives, because if I can do some live feedback and editing, and we do it as a group, it should be applicable to everyone else to go back and do one more iteration of it before I give it a once over, and let each of you know whether I think it's ready. But we're in a great place as far as what you all have done so far. It was fun to see everybody wrestle through interpreting
NSG: what jobs means and what resources there are, and who the authors of those resources are.
NSG: because one tricky thing with this which makes it so confusing is that there are multiple different people who like, I guess, claim the methodology
NSG: which I've never had to actually like, address or talk about fully, because after the 1st day I explain who
NSG: created it, as far as I know, and and what that journey looks like. But someone shared a resource. I forgot who it was, and it was the Anthony Olwick jobs to be done book
NSG: which is a a slightly different variation of this technique than what I know and and and can teach
NSG: but all is fair in love and war. So I just thought you all should know like there's many ways to do this, but at the end of the day. We're asking the same questions and getting the same insights. So were there any questions before I pick up right where we left off last time talking about the milkshake.
Antoine: I guess if you can, if you can share the handbook that you were referring to. Maybe you've done it already, and I missed it.
NSG: Well, what's gonna happen after the session today
NSG: is I'm going to instantiate A to do list in every single company basecamp.
NSG: So each of your base camps will have the actual step by step, prescription with links to all the resources I'm referencing. It's all well like thought out. So, Antoine, what I sent you all as a message on Friday to complete as an assignment was just kind of like a little teaser.
NSG: But basically we'll go back from when I 1st started talking about this all the way through to the point where you have a 2 h meeting with me, and you'll know, step by step, exactly what to read and what to do. Does that make sense?
NSG: Yeah. So no worries on that front. You will get everything you need.
NSG: I'm seeing Chloe's update here.
NSG: Team members, base camp welcome kits. All this stuff she updated you on handbook is demand side sales, one on one. Yeah, cool. All right. Good announcements. Thank you, Chloe.
NSG: Anything else. Any other thoughts, comments over the weekend, reflections on Jake's
NSG: workshop or session, any feedback for him?
NSG: All good cool.
Meg Hall: The demand side. Sales book. The. I looked it up on Amazon, and it obviously won't get to Hawaii before I leave. Is there like? Do you know, if I there's a way to like, can I? Can I ship it to the office, or is there a place in person. I can buy it.
NSG: Chloe, is your mic working again?
Chloe Lannert: Yeah. Am I? Am I here?
Meg Hall: Yeah, yeah.
Chloe Lannert: Beautiful, so you can ship things to the office. Address. If you want to get a head start. The audio book is a good place to start. You can get that on like Kindle, or whatever we do recommend that everyone has their own, their own physical copy, because there are some diagrams in there that are pretty important to take a look at. But
Chloe Lannert: I know. Okay, I'll look and see if I can find an audio book link, because I know a bunch of our people have done the audio book before.
Meg Hall: Yeah, I checked on audible last night and couldn't find it.
Chloe Lannert: Okay. I'll dig a little bit more.
Meg Hall: Okay. Thank you.
NSG: Alright, we're back.
NSG: That was really slick on my part. I zoom had the thing where I had to restart zoom in order for it to work, and I figured I would do it in time for Chloe to finish her comments. That was good.
NSG: perfect timing, cool.
NSG: Alright. Let's jump back in. So I don't even know if we fully got to the product team. Here
NSG: we were talking about what to do with the milkshakes, and we were pivoting, and I think Mark pick things up and was talking about what he would do to change
NSG: Mcdonald's strategy with respect to product is that where we left off. Guys, I think that is cool.
Antoine: That's right.
NSG: So oh, sorry! Go ahead, Antoine!
Antoine: No no yes, yes, yes.
NSG: Any final thoughts on the very 1st intro to Jtvd with Clay and Mcdonald's
NSG: cool.
NSG: So has anyone read the innovator's dilemma, any chance?
NSG: Nineties. Eighties, something like that. Okay, so I talked about this a little bit. But yeah, the whole notion. Here was
NSG: the note, the the idea of being disruptive as a startup, is pretty cliche, and has been for a few decades now.
NSG: But I highly recommend for the business nerds
NSG: to consider actually understanding the origin of the term which came from Clay, and he built upon this when he released competing against luck. So I don't have founders read this book.
NSG: But if anybody wants to go as deep as possible about the kind of the research and the academic side of this framework in theory, and how it was applied to larger businesses. This book goes into it, and I think, without explicitly naming him. Not only Clay, but Bob Mesta, who conducted the mattress interview that you all listen to, and who I'll talk about a lot during this time is also featured and involved in this
NSG: cool.
NSG: So you all have some exposure to the timeline.
NSG: we've talked about a little bit with jobs. But I think between this and the next resource, I'm going to talk you guys through. If there was only one thing that you retain from the next hour and a half, it's what we're about to talk through.
NSG: So when you are conducting your customer interviews in the jobs to be done. Format. What's really important is that you keep in mind as you're going as you're having the conversation. I have a blank version of this timeline in front of me, and there's different templates I can share with you. We have them in the to do's, and you can look up your own or design your own online. But the whole idea is that
NSG: there's a moment, a switch moment. There's a moment of either a purchase of firing or of activating a user or customers behavior that you're orienting your conversation around. So as you're having these conversations. You're unpacking the phases that the customer is going through in time leading up to that point.
NSG: So too often, I think a huge mistake that founders tend to make when they do. Customer discovery is they're spending time evaluating
NSG: post purchase sentiment as opposed to pre-purchase causal inputs.
NSG: So we're trying to actually understand what activities, behaviors, inputs, what were the chain of events that led to the person activating a certain state of search
NSG: and or purchase and decision making.
NSG: So you'll find like it's not like
NSG: completely like crystal like this, but in an eerie way, more often than not, there's usually one to 3 events that occur leading up to a purchase decision. And almost always the consumer is going from a 1st thought that could be years ago, months ago, sometimes weeks ago.
NSG: But it leads into these like these phases pretty seamlessly by and large.
NSG: Most people tend to evaluate only like the deciding through to the buying part.
NSG: But there's usually way more going on underneath the surface. And you all kind of gathered that through the mattress interview demonstration.
NSG: So this is one thing that I'm gonna make sure that all of you all like submit as you conduct each interview, because one thing that helps me when I'm kind of helping you do, the analysis of them is to look at the timeline and forces for the individual, and then we do a composite as well of the 10 to 15 interviews that you do where we have like a more consolidated version of this.
NSG: So that's time.
NSG: The other component is now going to be the forces of progress. So there's 4 quadrants here.
NSG: the push, the pull, the habits, and the anxieties. So the pushes are the most common, the ones that you all know the best. They're the ones that activate
NSG: a problem, you know, like, I'm reacting to something I need to make progress. My tire popped. I need to replace it. I need to get a new one. Now, when you think of pull comparatively, that's more of an aspirational energy. That's what's drawing someone towards a better way of of living or thinking. So from a b 2 b context. When I think about.
NSG: you know a business problem that can come from from top down, or be all types of things that are very obvious and on the nose a pull is more of this makes me better, even if what we are right now is okay. So there could be a combination of those forces at play. And then for habit and anxiety.
NSG: these forces, when you start to categorize these when you're conducting your interviews. And you're sensing someone talking about a habit or an anxiety that's usually something that keeps them in their way of doing things
NSG: right? So you're you're gonna plot something like, we don't want to switch operating systems, or we're not interested in adopting new software, even if it makes us more efficient because we've been burned in the past because we've hired other things that have been problems that we've had to that have gone away. They've been too early stage startups, and they're too finicky and unreliable.
NSG: So when you have these different forces that you're kind of categorizing.
NSG: this part of it is done. Post interview, whereas the timeline is what I am actually documenting while I'm interviewing.
NSG: So this is kind of a 1, 2 punch.
NSG: So once you've done the interview. Usually they take 20 to 30 min.
NSG: You spend another 10 to 15. You always bury in
NSG: debrief time into each of your jobs to be done. Interview like sessions that you schedule, and the debrief is usually with at least one other person. You don't want to do it on your own ideally, because you want to have somebody to talk through things with.
NSG: That's when you start to plot the forces. And you ask yourself, what did we hear?
NSG: And you start to categorize them, and you have debate. Sometimes there's nuance, and they might fit into more than one category, and you have to decide which one is more appropriate. That you would categorize a certain aspect of the conversation or anecdote or quote.
NSG: But ultimately, what you're looking for is energy.
NSG: You're trying to find that emotional energy of what's in their story. So usually, what happens in the timeline when I'm having these interviews is something really interesting will come up
NSG: that they'll get animated about. There'll be more motion, or it'll seem more significant. And I'll zoom in
NSG: just like when I'm doing video editing or something like that. And you zoom in on the timeline. You zoom in on their story, and you get them to unpack even more details and elaborate. So this interview technique isn't going to be easy and not everyone's going to be good at it. But over time all of us will become more proficient together.
NSG: And then, lastly, when I talk about energy, there's like a few dimensions to it. So there's social, functional, and emotional forces that are all at play with each person that you're going to speak to, and with that in mind they all matter, and they all have different degrees of importance depending on the circumstance. So social is going to be, how it affects other people, and how others might see me at this company, or in this context. Does this make me the hero? Does this make me the villain?
NSG: If I hire this software to make this progress? Will it eliminate jobs. Will it make my job better? Will it make me seem like I'm I'm more awesome. Or is it gonna replace me?
NSG: Functional? Does it actually do what it says, it will do reliably and well, and then emotionally, which is
NSG: probably one of the most powerful components here is, how does it make me feel am I more empowered? Do I feel like excited? Do I feel like I'm going to get more done because I've hired this as opposed to what I was doing before.
NSG: So this also maps over to some company company systems. So a lot of the times, the supply side thinking is like rampant, especially early on with techsars, companies, and founders in general. So I do my best to like, pull you guys back towards the demand side way of framing and thinking about these things because there's
NSG: ultimate tension between product led growth and thinking. That product and quality product is going to be your saving grace. I actually still believe that, but with more nuance with respect to how you actually frame it to the customer.
NSG: And then the timeline that we talked about maps over time to larger company systems. So if you think about, you know marketing and sales, and how you get people through the funnel and pipeline that maps to the 1st thought, to the passive looking, to the active looking in the timeline for jobs. So you're literally
NSG: A as A B as primarily b 2 b businesses. You guys are going to be advantaged, I think, by already thinking in this way and documenting what you're learning about your businesses and your customers this way, because over time, as your business evolves into a full fledged thing.
NSG: these processes track, and the part that I haven't had
NSG: as much pleasure to do that. I think this class will be relatively unique, and letting me execute is the firing interviews and the post consumption. Is it working? Because what I saw on the base camp thread from you all over the weekend were a lot of people trying to interview interview your existing customers and understand what's working, and what isn't. So that, like
NSG: last phase of this timeline is well primed for that.
NSG: Cool.
NSG: Any questions about this before I move on.
Ankur Toshniwal: Yes.
Ankur Toshniwal: I am curious about so like, you know, I guess it's like specifically for for us, I guess in this case.
NSG: Okay.
Ankur Toshniwal: we have a lot. We have a lot of people who've used our product tried our product, and like a handful who've paid for it what and and so I think we can do a lot of the these activities, I think, for previous users and previous interviews.
Ankur Toshniwal: I am curious if there's a version of this that works for like scoping out hypothetical users
Ankur Toshniwal: right? Like being able to be like, Hey, I know it's that's kind of like Meta. But the idea there, the the objective of that is like is there a way to think about
Ankur Toshniwal: potential?
Ankur Toshniwal: You know customers, or is really the only way to go talk to them, because I feel like the hard part about it is like.
Ankur Toshniwal: if you try and talk to everyone you wait to kind of finish this, and you're kind of like rent. You kind of like, you know.
Ankur Toshniwal: you know, spraying and praying versus like, Hey.
NSG: If you talk to people, you're spraying and praying. But if you imagine who the people are, you're not.
Ankur Toshniwal: Oh, well, what I mean is like, if you, if you talk to people to wait to do this analysis right, or to to like, or to to wait to get some kind of breakdown of the thing like, what's the process of deciding who to even talk to you, I guess? And does any of this apply to? Is there some process to that as well.
NSG: Oh, yeah, there's a process to it. And we're gonna that's what we're talking about today. That's what I mean. If I do my job. You'll know that by the end of this call.
Ankur Toshniwal: Yeah, does does any of this apply to that? Or this is purely like on post
Ankur Toshniwal: conversation with with like conservation.
NSG: Yeah. Yeah. So the the power of this technique
NSG: lies in reality, and not in any land of hypothetical.
NSG: So like the notion of like imagining who a user might be and doing.
NSG: having conversations about potential behavior as opposed to actual behavior is something that I am actively campaigning against. Here. I'm trying to basically teach you away from from taking that approach.
NSG: Now, if that's what you do. Still, that's all good. But I'm going to show you why you'll benefit
NSG: from analyzing actual behavior, whether it's 1 of your customers.
NSG: or whether it's someone who's hired an indirect or direct competitor
NSG: to what it is that you're offering.
NSG: That's what this is all about.
NSG: So, Ankur, what you're what I think, what you're getting at is what I think
NSG: is rampant right now and always has been amongst early stage founders and startups, and every now and then a brilliant person has enough intuition and personal experience to still be effective at what you're saying. Right? They can. They can almost imagine into it what the market needs. I did it myself, you know, when I when I started my business, and I tapped into some. I hit a gold mine
NSG: with respect to demand, and like it went viral and top of hacker news all over the world. People heard about my business and all that stuff, and that's great. But that's not something that's easily taught.
NSG: And instead, this is a more scientific, I think process for actually uncovering demand.
NSG: You follow.
Ankur Toshniwal: Yeah.
NSG: Yeah. But but look I, I do want you to hold me accountable, though, Ankar. So if I don't actually address what you're asking me about by the end of this call. I need you to call me out, because I'll make sure I do it.
Ankur Toshniwal: Sounds good.
NSG: All right.
NSG: Any other questions about this before we move on, because I'm going to switch into a different story here.
NSG: So I just thought I'd show you that I hung out with clay. He's super tall. I'm not that tall, so there's that
NSG: And oh, yeah, I think I'm only mentioned this to people who left. He sadly passed away a number of years ago. But when I had the chance to meet with him
NSG: he was actually helping me prepare for a few activities, and one was implementing jobs to be done for startups. Here we are, live and living color doing it because he worked with mostly large companies. But also I got involved in the political arena. Briefly, which I'll tell you a much deeper story about, but he was assisting me a little bit in thinking about how to apply jobs to be done within the realm of municipal governments.
NSG: Anybody know who this guy is?
NSG: Does this face look familiar to anyone? Has anyone seen a video yeah podcast of somebody?
NSG: What's what's his name.
Trina Das: Bob Moistley.
NSG: That's Bob. Yeah, this is Bob. So Bob is
NSG: the co-creator of the jobs to be done. Framework. He's the guy whose voice you heard when the mattress interviews are being conducted.
NSG: and I have the privilege of sharing a story that is not very commonly shared. Because I know it because I heard it from Bob himself over many years.
NSG: And it starts with these 2 things.
NSG: Does anybody know what these are?
NSG: Specifically?
NSG: What are these?
NSG: Don't speak up all at once.
Chloe Lannert: About Mars, Bars.
carloscaglia: Honest Nick, as well.
NSG: Oh, which one is which.
Ankur Toshniwal: Nickers in the bottom.
NSG: Alright, this is great. So Bob was a self-taught engineer.
NSG: Was at University of or Michigan State University, and also spent some time at Harvard.
NSG: But when he graduated he's from Detroit. So he's involved in a lot of different companies, especially car companies in the auto industry. But one of his friends was working at Mars, based in New Jersey.
NSG: and they brought on Bob early on. This is like, I think, in the nineties
NSG: to assess the situation because they had these difficult competing products. And Milky Way and snickers were kind of neck and neck and trying to figure out
NSG: whether they wanted to move forward with these products. And how.
NSG: So I'm gonna give you a little video here of one of the
NSG: very top I can't remember was Super bowl, commercial or not, but I know it was a very prominent commercial, because when I was a kid I saw it. But here's where the brand stood at the time.
NSG: Can I hope you enjoy that snickers?
NSG: Let me see if, can you guys hear this?
NSG: Can I.
Chloe Lannert: You enjoy.
NSG: That snickers
NSG: happy peanut! So over chocolate, covered mountaintops and waterfalls of caramel.
NSG: prancing new good in the meadow, sings a song of satisfaction to the that's right.
NSG: Alright! So debrief! What did we hear there?
NSG: What's the ad team doing with this commercial?
NSG: What are they selling? Who are they selling to Carlo.
carloscaglia: I'm describing the product, just the product and what goes into it, and that kind of selling to
carloscaglia: to people who are snacking on it for a moment of joy, and otherwise maybe not that satisfied with with what they're doing, I think if it was positioned out now, it'd be very funny because people would just see the satire in it, but probably back then it was like, he's a corporate
carloscaglia: cubicle office job person. And let me just tell you about all the sweet things in here to sweeten up your otherwise dull day.
NSG: Right? Right? Okay, that that's that. I I love that interpretation any other comments
NSG: cause. They spent a lot of money on this commercial. So I I'd be curious to know if people could actually figure out what's going on and what the job of it was.
NSG: Well for Bob and for us.
NSG: We weren't quite sure, either, so I remember seeing that, and like not really
NSG: wrapping my head around who it's for what the energy was, why, it mattered, and nor could they. So sales are struggling. They're throwing shit at the wall. They're trying to figure out a way to make it work, but it's not quite landing.
NSG: So Bob leaves the Mars Factory, New Jersey heads way back to Detroit, and on his way back
NSG: he finds his way in an airport.
NSG: Now this is where I think it gets really fun. So he is a strange guy, and growing up, his mom gave him a 3 foot rule.
NSG: and the 3 Foot rule meant. If he's within 3 feet of someone he can have a conversation with them.
NSG: So he found himself in line at a kiosk at the airport, and he saw somebody purchase a snickers.
NSG: so he literally followed them to their gate, observe their behavior, and eventually struck up a conversation to unpack why, they bought the snickers but before that, what he observed this person do is sit down, open up his laptop, devour the snickers bar within about 90 seconds and start typing out some emails. And what the gentleman told Bob was.
NSG: If I,
NSG: you know, want to sleep on the plane and take a break. I need to power through some work right now, and I just needed something to hold me over makes sense.
NSG: But now the question came, What about Milky Way?
NSG: So Bob went back to the same kiosk. He observed for a while to no avail, and then.
NSG: when he had a conversation with the person working there
NSG: realizes they're not flipping any milky ways.
NSG: So when he goes back home
NSG: and he's still puzzling with this issue and looking at the data from the Mars Company and like trying to figure out what's going on. He had a conversation with his wife.
NSG: About like, who's buying milky ways, and and why he can't find anyone in any of these stores who are doing so
NSG: turns out she grabs a stool, goes to the kitchen
NSG: steps on it, reaches to the back of a cabinet above the fridge, grabs a bowl, pulls out the Milky Way. It says, I eat milky ways. I just don't want you to know about it.
NSG: So when he goes back and he looks at the data, it turns out that the competitive set
NSG: for a snickers bar is fundamentally different than the competitive set
NSG: for the Milky Way, and they found this out over a series of deeper research and analysis and interviews, but ultimately, just like play with the milkshake.
NSG: Bob with the Milky Way and the Snickers Bar became a very, very important insight for a business that they had contracted with.
NSG: So this is what came of it.
NSG: But yeah, oh, my God!
NSG: Oh.
NSG: Mike, come on, Mike, what is your deal, man? Oh, come on, man, you've been riding me all day. You're playing like Betty White out there. Ask out what your girlfriend says. Baby eat a snickers
NSG: better.
NSG: Hi, I'm okay.
NSG: That hurt. You're not you. When you're hungry, snickers satisfies.
NSG: Does anyone remember this campaign?
NSG: Yeah, okay, welcome to the party, everyone. So this is what happened with with Bob and Jobs. So Clay and Bob like in these weird, different parts of the world. We've got Mcdonald's. We've got snickers. The irony of, you know Clay bringing up snickers in his talk as well. But what ended up happening is, is
NSG: the the campaign succeeded now. It's not all dedicated to that one insight, but that, combined with a lot of other things, led this company to fundamentally reshape how they think about their competition, and how they identify the needs of their consumers.
NSG: So that was like setting off a really cool, like timeline chain of events. And I'll probably have Bob come, speak to you all about the full story, and give you even more of the of the background here. But I know it begs the question like, here we are in Texas, our San Francisco AI companies all B, 2 B.
NSG: What the hell are we talking about? Candy bars for?
NSG: Right?
NSG: So for me, what's still important about telling you all the origin of these frameworks is because you still get the language and processes of the general idea of tracking consumer behavior and demand. And the domino effect, the chain of events that undeniably cause problems. So I'm going to throw a few more terms at you all here, and then I'll get into some things that I think will help summarize
NSG: the deeper dive, resource and book of demand side sales, one on one and then I'll give you a few tips and techniques about how to refine your screening criteria before we get into that.
NSG: So one important nomenclature that we have are big hires versus little hires. So when we talk about a big hire, that's the actual purchase, the little hires are all the other things that customers tend to do with your product or service along the way, and sometimes those become features and separate products in and of themselves. So one really good additional case study for this that came from jobs early on was, is anyone ever use the product? Nyquil?
NSG: Okay. So Nyquil is like a cold medicine, right? So it helps you sleep. And also, you know, work on, you know, if you're if you're feeling sick.
NSG: That was the original product.
NSG: Couple. Other products came out of it. So turns out that there were people that wanted to
NSG: have cough syrup to be less sick.
NSG: but didn't want to go to sleep.
NSG: They quill turns out there were people who weren't sick
NSG: but wanted help going to sleep.
NSG: Zql.
NSG: So these forks of behavior weren't just already known by the people who made the original product. They had to observe and understand what trade-offs people were making by still hiring the same product to do subpar aspects of the job that they needed to be done. So when you have those different forks for your product or feature set, when you're observing how your users or customers are consuming your product. Keep in mind what those little hires are, and you might need to make flags of that, especially those of you that are doing.
NSG: you know, post purchase interviews with your existing customers.
NSG: And the other thing that's really important here, as you think about framing. This is refining your situation, but with context. So when you add a lot more detail to what's going on, sometimes almost too much detail, it allows you to strip away things, whereas I think if you speak in a too high of a level and too broadly, and you try to categorize people before you understand the individuals you're leaving out a lot of important distinguished, you know, insights.
NSG: So the context here is going to be key.
NSG: When I want something to eat.
NSG: Grab a snickers.
NSG: Not quite right you. When you want something to eat. There's a lot of different things that you can do
NSG: to address this.
NSG: So how might I refine the job of a snickers bar that goes beyond. I want something to eat.
NSG: This is right now an exercise for you on your screening criteria definition. This is what I'm trying to help you learn how to do
NSG: so for snickers, is it when I want something to eat? Or is it something else.
carloscaglia: Something else.
NSG: What is it?
NSG: Give me something. Let's add some more context.
Trina Das: City.
carloscaglia: Well, snickers at that point was just positioning. The the product is like, it's not just about, you know.
NSG: Think about when I want something to eat like you've had a snickers bar before, right.
carloscaglia: No.
NSG: So when you want a snickers bar, is it when you want something to eat? Or is it some other context.
carloscaglia: No, it's another context. When you feel like you gotta get pumped up for something where you gotta put.
NSG: You want to get pumped up. Okay, I like that. So maybe when I'm trying to move quickly.
Ankur Toshniwal: Yeah, they've got.
NSG: Better.
Ankur Toshniwal: Trying to reframe it from like a candy to a snack.
NSG: Well, I'm just trying to be honest with who needs a snickers right now. And why? Right? So I'm in a rush. I want something to eat. That's the snickers, or is there more? We can do.
Ankur Toshniwal: I'm hangry.
NSG: I'm hangry. Okay, I'm starving, right? I'm really, really hungry.
NSG: I'll give you one more
NSG: when I'm in a rush. I'm starving. I need something I can eat with one hand while I'm on the go, and I'm not sure when the next time I'll be able to eat is
NSG: so what I'm here to tell you is that all of most of you for your screening criteria that you submitted to me over the weekend are in categories, one or 2 up here. You're either when I want some to eat or when I'm in a rush. I want something with how well you've described the situation that your users in for? Why you'd want to talk to them or interview them. It's not enough to say I want to interview my customers.
NSG: or I want to interview people who fit into these categories or have these titles. You have to give us a lot more color for who they are. Why, you want to talk to them specifically and not just everyone who fits into that category.
NSG: There's a subgroup of people. There's 10 people you want to talk to that fit a certain profile where, given their context and situation, it's going to tell you more about a much larger group of people that you want to get to know
NSG: hopefully, this is starting to make sense.
NSG: So the notion of a job story like a user story, is the idea of focusing on the context and the causality and the motivations as opposed to what we tend to do, which is make assumptions use a lot of our subjectivity. Implement, you know, personas and a lot of our ideas of what we think customers are and what they need and what they want and what we've anecdotally heard. But we haven't done the proper assessment
NSG: to compare and contrast data across a normalized set of screening criteria.
NSG: So these demographic things they can be helpful and important, but it doesn't explain why Peter ate the snickers 30 seconds to buy and eat something that's going to stave off hunger for 30 min is what?
NSG: So just know that like while the demographic information you still need to capture and keep track of, and once you're larger and at scale, and you can use this large data set and these insights and surveys to get valuable information at this stage of the startup. Most of you only have a handful of customers. So you're gonna have to do something else to get gather the insights you'd need to double triple and 10 x those numbers over time.
NSG: So few principles that I'm going to extract from the book to save you all time from having to, you know, read the whole thing right now.
NSG: One is people buy for their own reasons. So it's not just your product or service. It's their progress. We've talked about that, you all being the bridge. The other thing that I really want to push back against is when people shrug their shoulders, and you kind of give up on the why, you know, you either think it's common sense, or you kind of take it for granted. Sometimes when you're in interviews, you tend to fill in the gaps.
NSG: and they'll say like
NSG: language or a word that makes sense to you, and you'll just kind of take their word for it rather than asking them to unpack it and explain more about what's going on. So down to the action level of, you know, the the causal reasons for why someone does. A certain thing is really really important to obsess over
NSG: and then ultimately, the struggle creates demand. So
NSG: the idea is that like, if they're not struggling like, if it's an easier purchase or nice to have
NSG: while you can gain insight. Still you will gain far fewer than the people who actually had to go through a painful moment. So the people who have more energy, the people who are in need of the most progress amongst your customers. So you have a group of users or customers, and some
NSG: had their hair on fire, and others experienced like a mouth inconvenience, and you had to do more to convince them to get over the line.
NSG: you might be inclined to understand the ones that you had to do more to convince, because there's probably more of them to secure.
NSG: But the ones who are the smaller group that have more of a burning need might be better to serve early on as your beachhead. For this reason.
NSG: so we talked about who to interview. And one thing that I like to do is I assign a customer success story you all. I didn't ask you to do this, but just knowing the base camp to do list that I'll activate for you. This assignment will be in there. The notion is that before you go about your interviews. Talk about what you think success already looks like for your
NSG: persona, for your imagined customer, and what you already know.
NSG: And then, when you break that down? You can answer these questions, what problem are they facing? How does it impact their lives? Why is it significant? Yada? Yada.
NSG: but I'll move forward to this other section, talking about current solutions. So when you think about indirect and direct competitors, we've talked a lot about food products now. But we need to switch over to your context. It's really helpful to, I think, borrow the language that Clay shared in his milkshake video, which is in language that you can understand. What job are you hiring this to do and think about the last time that you hired something different to do the same job.
NSG: That's the key question for many of you.
NSG: So the folks that you interview who are your customers who are doing something before, if you can find out what they were doing before and what the purchase story was for that product compared to yours. That's gonna be gold.
NSG: So your initial scoping interviews for the screening criteria that you all shared that could actually help you further refine it. So sometimes, when I start off with the jobs to be done, interview at this stage with these cut with you all.
NSG: you'll realize that you think you're going into doing a round of 10 interviews. But you do your 1st one or 2, and then you'll learn. You need to switch it up and refactor your criteria, refocus it because you almost had it. But it wasn't quite the right subgroup of people to talk to or the right learning question.
NSG: I also enjoy this process because it's creative. It can seem really annoying and hard to find people who fit even more specific criteria. But it's certainly doable and if you don't have
NSG: customers to interview, and instead, you need another way to do it. There's a few other tools that we can share with you all that'll help you identify users who fit that criteria. There's a website called Respondentio, that we tend to recommend, that allows you to include certain parameters of criteria, of who you want to talk to and how to find those interviewees.
NSG: So we talked about learning objective. So you all kind of know about how that goes. So I'll skip over that part and jump to screening criteria. But again, it's the people who have the most energy that you should be targeting first.st So when I pull up the basecamp thread at the end of this and talk through what you all have shared. I'm curious to know if we can refine this in in real time, because there's going to be a group of people
NSG: that are nested within the group you defined, that are the most fervent, the people who are like shut up and take my money.
NSG: So those are the folks that we want to talk to 1st and get to know first.st because by understanding their energy it could bleed over into insights for the larger categories.
NSG: So remember, 100 people is not what we're trying to do. We're trying to do 10 10 to 15 is is more than enough for this. And then the other thing that I think Ankar was asking about before. So excuse the language here. But one thing I I heard from Bob was bitch and ain't switching.
NSG: So the idea is that if someone's dissatisfied with something and they're complaining about it that's worth noting and paying attention to. But if they haven't changed their behavior or switched out.
NSG: still, not quite what we're looking for at this stage. We want people who've actively fired or hired something to make real progress as opposed to people who are signaling either dissatisfaction or complaint, or, you know unhappiness now, again, as founders of businesses where you have to run customer service properly important to pay attention to that energy. But it's also important not to be too flippant, and to change
NSG: priorities as a business or just features or kowtow to certain things until you've actually done the work to understand what's really going on, and whether there's an actual problem.
NSG: So again, not about demographics. And I have a few examples to kind of, remember, you know how to compare the screening criteria. So here's a screenshot from demand side sales that, I think summarizes it really. Well.
NSG: So what I saw are certain demographic categories from some of you. Right? So college students with busy and stressful schedules. Okay, that's decent. But college students who started going to therapy within the past 6 months
NSG: gives you an even better version of who you want to talk to with more context and specificity.
NSG: Do you understand the difference?
NSG: So I'll talk through the other 2 so clinicians who treat a specified condition versus clinicians who have recently hired an assistant to better treat the condition.
NSG: So again, anchor on the higher the moment of purchase the action that they took and based on the action that
NSG: completes the profile.
NSG: Maybe one or 2 of you got this right, I think when you submitted for those who submitted in the thread. But again, this will be the key thing to go back and look at, and I'll drop this in somewhere, in all these slides for you all to have access to forever. And then, lastly, people who are curious about cryptocurrency or crypto, curious people versus people who recently bought their 1st crypto. So it's always making a real purchase, not the hypothetical notion of having an issue or fitting a certain profile.
NSG: Ankar, is this helpful.
Ankur Toshniwal: Yeah.
NSG: And then for all of you, since we're all b 2 b here, businesses don't buy. People do.
NSG: So. Understanding the decision maker and some of the other layers of influence for the decision maker, like many of you, probably also have to deal with the champion or activate a champion within your your workflow. Is going to be key as well. It's really really painstaking sometimes for B, 2 B, because businesses are sometimes hard to navigate and get people to talk to you.
NSG: And if you have to talk to multiple different, you know, stakeholders that can take up a lot of time. So the advice that I have there for those of you in that situation are to focus on the ultimate decision maker as a priority and then work your way through the chain of some of the other parties that are involved along with the actual users.
NSG: So, to summarize the process.
NSG: we frame the learning questions which you've done. We've identified who we want to screen as potential recruits. We'll refine this today.
NSG: You conduct those individual interviews 20 to 30 min each with a 10 to 15 min debrief, 10 to 15 of those
NSG: you do the debriefs
NSG: you do an analysis of patterns. This is where it gets a little fancy. So there's a lot of ways to do the analysis. But the very simple way is to look at all the data, start to combine and cluster, and based on the clustering. You have a conversation to draw, certain insights that have implications for sales, marketing, and product.
NSG: You do a detailed of the jobs to be done. So you all saw this with Jake from zest on Friday, where he has a write up
NSG: for why people leave, why people stay what people hire. So all of you eventually should have some sort of company document. So as you bring people into your business, you can explain to them. Here's what we do. Here's who our customers are. Here's how we serve them. And here's the process that we go about to continue learning and and painting a better picture of our evolving customer base.
NSG: And then, lastly, implications and opportunities for prototyping. So my, this is my favorite part, but this is like the candy at the end. This is like dessert at the end of the meal. This is when you get to go. Okay, we have all these insights we did all the work. Let's do all of the good things with it.
NSG: One very simple test here is to once you have your detailed jobs to be done in insight.
NSG: Go to your homepage and ask yourself, are we addressing the job to be done with how we introduce ourselves to people when they land on our website.
NSG: So that's 1 very simple exercise. But a much deeper one is going to be
NSG: major product, overhaul different prioritizations and changes, different bets that you'll make on certain sprints of of key features that you want to build out.
NSG: Yeah, a lot of a lot of people have pivoted their businesses entirely after having gone through this journey with us and doing the job. Speed on analysis.
NSG: The way you need to think of yourself as you're conducting. The interview is kind of like you're either a detective or a journalist.
NSG: So the notion here is not. You're an entrepreneur. You're a CEO, you're a founder, and you're you're a business that's not our job. In this context, our job is to discover.
NSG: So we're not here to sell or promote our product. We're not trying to cross promote you know, an acquisition play here or a double dip instead, we're extremely disciplined and focused that we are researchers
NSG: in this context. Now, it will be tempting. Because you, when you hear their stories as you're doing the interview, you're gonna go. Oh, man, they really need my my product, or if it's an existing customer, you're gonna say, Oh, man like I can make this one change for them, and it'll be fine, or I can explain how that works and why it's a problem, and then they'll be better off.
NSG: I beg you to fight the urge to do that, and instead make a note of it.
NSG: and either at the end of the call, when you're done with your interview, or as a follow up address, all the things that you want to put the CEO or founder hat on to talk to your customer about.
NSG: Okay.
NSG: I have this problem. Every single program I've run where I have founders. And when I look at their data, and I look at the interviews and the Transcript, and I see them very slowly but surely starting to talk about and promote themselves on the call rather than redirecting their focus back to the customer.
NSG: Now, sometimes you have customers that are so good.
NSG: They love you. So they want to talk to you about their ideas for what they think you should do or where they need your help.
NSG: That's okay. And it's important to be gracious about how you handle that. But you should remind them, hey, we're talking to you for this reason to gain these insights to find more people like you, and to better understand your needs. I'd love to address that, either at the end of the call or in a follow up. But I wanted to stay on. Course here. There's language like that that you can activate that's really respectful to your users. That is really important to just maintain, so that you focus on the insights you want to gain as opposed to
NSG: business sales, progress or customer service.
NSG: Does that make sense
NSG: alright. Everyone's with me. I got it good. Alright! See a few other things. Why, I use it. There's a few really cool like
NSG: organizational leadership aspects to having jobs to be done integrated into your business. So one it allows for distributed decision making. So it really helps everybody on your team understand whether we're actually doing the right thing or not? Are we working towards the job that needs to be done for our customer? There's so many businesses at this stage that don't have alignment with everybody on their team for what they're there to do and who they're serving, and what ultimately defines success.
NSG: So having this is like super helpful at that level.
NSG: directing our resources in the right way.
NSG: are we prioritizing and spending our time on what ultimately matters for our customers and for our long, like long term, success as a business or not having the jobs, insights, reinforces this in a big way.
NSG: It's also inspiring to know that you're actually delivering on what your customer actually needs. It's a very empowering thing. Good culturally activates a lot of really, really exciting kind of reflections as a team. And then ultimately, you're measuring the right thing.
NSG: So you're focused on developing kpis and metrics that are around customer success as opposed to maybe some things that are either, you know, lagging indicators or vanity metrics which founders tend to do early on to make things look good for investor narratives.
NSG: So this gives you a lot more punch and substance when you're talking to people about what actually works and what your customers actually care about. And and I find Vcs tend to struggle
NSG: to actually think of what these are for companies. So it's on you, the founder, the expert in your industry and business to educate investors and other stakeholders about what's important to measure about your customer success and other aspects of your business.
NSG: So here's a cool visual. I found many years ago that I think summarizes what I just tried to describe to you all really succinctly.
NSG: You interview people who switch from one thing to another. You understand their decision making. And you analyze the forces that made them switch.
NSG: That's a very, very oversimplified version of everything. I'm trying to get you all to do
NSG: cool. So we talked about learning objectives and screening criteria. I want to go through it. But I have combined the you know another lecture to kind of skip through this part. But ultimately, what you're gonna do is you're gonna look through your customers eyes. You're gonna see what they see you're gonna hear what they hear. And then you're gonna understand what they mean.
NSG: So before I go into you all screening criteria as the kind of culmination here. Any questions so far
NSG: got it all right. Keep going.
NSG: So how do we find people to interview? So I mentioned a few resources and ideas. Do any of you all have any concerns or qualms right now about how you might find the folks that you defined in your screening criteria to interview.
Trina Das: Yes, I am.
Trina Das: Hi!
NSG: Yeah. Go ahead.
Trina Das: Oh, can you hear me? Okay? So I am actually interviewing like radiologists and lab technicians right now. But I'm not really able to reach out to the decision makers of the lab, though we are able to pitch them our product. But to get them to sit on an interview is like really tough.
Trina Das: So I'm not sure how to do that.
Trina Das: So I'm actually able to interview the users.
NSG: Right. So that's fair. I think there's a few options you have. One. I'm not sure to what extent this would be kosher, but it's also helpful to incentivize people to have conversations with you by respecting their time. So one strange enough thing that seems to work is something as simple as an Amazon gift card.
NSG: But there are also a few other platforms that help you identify folks that fit that criteria so these 2 platforms. And then there's a few others that you all could probably find tend to work
NSG: both for B, 2 B+B to C identification of people to talk to what's great about this group is that I think the majority of you either have customers or on the cusp of having a customer. Which means that I would highly recommend you. Start there if you're not sure where to start but just be careful if you end up using a recruitment platform to make sure that you're very specific. And you like, take extra caution with defining your screening survey.
NSG: Because leading questions tend to send you down the wrong path. People tend to misrepresent themselves, and they'll say that they are or have done something that they haven't if you're not specific enough.
NSG: And the reason being is, you know, these are sometimes paid, and it's worth it.
NSG: But when it comes to the interview itself, make sure that you, you know, include open, ended questions for that survey, and identifying the, you know, screening the recruits.
NSG: And then you can also use your personal networks, which is my favorite way of doing it. So I tend to, you know, identify people on Linkedin or I have a short list of people who I know are connected to folks who fit the criteria, and I'll ask that group if they have anyone that they can refer.
NSG: So it's a lot easier to find people in your network who are related to the problem. But screening for their actual behavior can be tricky. So be really careful to not be too loosey goosey
NSG: about who you're talking to, and think something counts as kind of like a jobs interview, even though it doesn't like they almost purchased it, but they didn't, or they use it for a second, but then they dropped off. Or you know, there's there's all these like weird little corners you could cut with this criteria that I try not to do if you can avoid it.
NSG: So, as far as framing the interview itself.
NSG: I think going back to the forces and motivations, make sure that they're also in the right, like time that they are grounded at the right timeline because sometimes when you interview people, and it's been 5 years since they made the purchase. You're not going to get the same insights from someone who bought it 3 months ago or 6 months ago or a year ago. So be really mindful of what situation they're actually in, and whether they're they'd be a good fit to unpack information from
NSG: and then I'm calling it an interrogation. But it should feel more like a casual conversation depending on your behavior and style as an interviewee. You're going to have to develop the right technique here, but it can be really tricky. So just know, like, even with the mattress interview, right? It almost got a little too detailed at a few times right where it felt like he was being annoying with the level of specificity he was asking for. I think this may have come up already, but we talked about the specificity of the milk.
NSG: I what was it? The milk? What kind of milk
NSG: he bought in in Costco before the mattress. Right? Do you all remember, or can you think of why, he asked, what kind of milk he bought when it's not even related to the mattress.
Meg Hall: Cause. He wanted for that guy to be back in like the the mindset of like where he was that day.
NSG: Yeah.
NSG: so these techniques, these interview techniques that I, you know, we're we're learning through this framework. The the origin of them actually came from Bob, having exposure and training through
NSG: believe it was the FBI so literally like this is how like
NSG: actual investigators like conduct, you know interviews, and these are some of the techniques that go into it. But it's the same thinking and then so that's part of it is being mindful of keeping things like a casual conversation. So you're being really friendly. But at the end of the day you're still getting the information you need. The other part of it, though, is humility. So making sure that you know that you're not smart enough to know
NSG: what they're thinking, and this is one of the biggest hurdles I tend to try to overcome in working with founders over the years, because you built a business in a category because you know it, and you care about it.
NSG: So it's only natural for you to project your insights and knowledge onto the situation, and how you're analyzing and understanding it. So to the extent that you can mitigate or reduce your own personal bias with your knowledge, and instead focusing on understanding them
NSG: the better off you'll be when it comes to unpacking the insights, because your knowledge isn't going anywhere but gaining insights from them. That's a fleeting opportunity, because you're not going to have a chance to interview them every time.
NSG: Just another simple stated belief about causality. You have to assume. Nothing is random, even if there is such a thing as randomness. Your job in this context is to assume that there isn't, and that I can find out as much as I can
NSG: that are causal inputs for what's going on here.
NSG: And so long as you have that belief baked into the process, you're gonna get more insights than the folks who tend to fill in the gaps inappropriately.
NSG: All right, trade-offs, trade-offs to making progress. So
NSG: what are they willing to give up in order to get the thing that they want.
NSG: It's not enough to just have more of something.
NSG: And the understanding of those sacrifices and compromises is one of the big tips when you're conducting these interviews. So really making sure that you have the right language, and you're arming yourself with the right kinds of questions that put you down the path of understanding what they were willing to do before, or what they were giving up, or what concessions they made to tolerate the existing behavior until they hired your solution.
NSG: They'll tend to tell you in the interview. Oh, well, here's why I did this, or I know I did that, or maybe one of you in the past week purchased something, and when you talk to a friend significant, other, or someone else about it, you told them. This is why I bought it.
NSG: and you have full confidence that you know why you bought that thing.
NSG: I guarantee you.
NSG: If you run the process and you have someone else ask you a few more questions about what went into your purchase. More will be unpacked. That you weren't immediately thinking of in your head.
NSG: It happens to everyone. It happens to me every day.
NSG: and I think understanding that is going to help each of you have a much better process and empathy for the people you're talking to, and not give them the benefit of the doubt that they're telling you the truth from the onset, because everybody lies, even if they don't intend to.
NSG: I bought this product because it's important to be healthy.
NSG: for example, right? And it's like, Okay, well, what do you mean by that? And when you start to unpack what people mean.
NSG: there's something
NSG: where people are almost willing to lie to themselves about what's going on, or their their reason for doing something or purchasing something.
NSG: So you have to be mindful and empathetic that that will happen. And in. And we're not going to be judgmental at all. We're just curious to understand what might be going on. But I'll give you a
NSG: a very strange example. So I was conducting these switch workshop jobs to be done. Interviews like 10 years ago in Detroit with Bob, and we had a woman who was
NSG: who had purchased a set of storage from crate and barrel.
NSG: and we were unpacking. Why, she bought the storage units, and it turns out that she purchase them
NSG: unbeknownst to her husband, and had them moved in and installed
NSG: while he was away at work.
NSG: They have kids, and from discussion, what we learned from these interviews was that
NSG: what she really wanted was to see her kids.
NSG: in the evening, while she's preparing dinner in the living room, and she wanted the toys to be stored in the living room adjacent to where she could see and hear them.
NSG: turns out that her husband did not want to do this, and instead wanted the kids toys to be in the basement.
NSG: because after a long day of work, when he comes home.
NSG: he wants more peace and quiet in the living room, and to just focus on having a family dinner.
NSG: As we were conducting this interview and unpacking more and more of the story and getting more color, it became really clear to us
NSG: that they were having marital issues.
NSG: and it went well beyond the notion of the product itself being purchased because they were having a deeper debate about whether they wanted to be around their kids
NSG: during the evening.
NSG: So I have to say, you have to use your power for good, and you have to know
NSG: when to switch it up and when to pull back.
NSG: because I've had a few times where I've done jobs to be done, interviews where you get a little too close to the sun.
NSG: like I've literally had people cry.
NSG: you know, on the call. So just know that, like you have to be really, really respectful and mindful of the human interest here, because every now and then you'll get deep enough where you're in, even in b 2 b, someone's like, I just don't want to lose my job.
NSG: you know, like, this is the cover my ass kind of purchase like I don't even. It's not even about what it does fully. It's more about the fact that by having it, it covers something that's deeper and more emotional for me.
NSG: So just be mindful of all of that. All right. A few more tips for the interview itself, and then we'll get into you. All's submitted work.
NSG: Have more than one person on the call.
NSG: Very important. The reason being is that you want one person who's the driver
NSG: and the other person who's the notetaker and navigator.
NSG: So what helps with this is that one of you is really, really focused on what questions you're asking and how you're driving the conversation. And the other person has the ability on the back end to kind of be mindful of the timeline as they fill it out identify things that you haven't asked questions that you still need to go deeper on insights that are still missing, or really interesting thing that we like. The interviewer who is driving may have glossed over, but the other person that that's helping you might be able to illuminate and say, Hey, check this out, or actually, we should go back to that
NSG: you can also fight with each other, which is good, meaning, not arguing with the interviewee themselves, but instead, you all disagree about something that you heard
NSG: like. No, I actually think that they meant this. No, what I heard is that. And then you look at them and go. What do you? What what did you mean?
NSG: So it gives you a little bit of a buffer to have more of a dynamic unpacking of insights from the person that you're having a conversation with.
NSG: It's also essential that you record the call.
NSG: we, you know, there's all types of tools. If you all need to help each other with that. Let me know, really important, that you do this. Ask for permission. It's almost never a problem.
NSG: Most of the time. They don't even think about it. Don't think it's a big deal. You have to give them assurance that it's not going to be used for any other purpose than your research and your interviews, and that their information will be kept confidential. But yeah, other than that, you should be able to have that insight, and it's really important, because
NSG: once you do your debrief, you'll end up having a conversation with whoever you were in the interview with.
NSG: and people tend to disagree on what you heard.
NSG: Well, I heard this, or I think they said this, and they're like, Okay, well, let's go back and listen, let's verify what we heard. And if for some reason the interview itself and the recording of it isn't enough, what do you think you should do next
NSG: any thoughts.
NSG: What do you do if the insights from the interview? Still leaving a begging question, there's something missing from the data that you want to capture.
Meg Hall: Just email them afterwards.
NSG: Follow up exactly like, call them back. Say, Hey, we. We just have one more question to ask you or send them an email. Follow up just to clarify one more thing.
NSG: It's amazing to me how many people don't do that so really important that you know that it's not a big deal to call someone back just to verify something that you heard
NSG: phone more important than video. So I like, this is also counterintuitive people like to have video calls, especially because it feels more personable with your customers and whatnot for jobs to be done. Interview absolutely, not much more effective to be by phone.
NSG: You're not worried about what someone looks like. You're not reacting. They're not reacting and worried about how they're coming off to you. It's more focused on the actual story and chain of events, and less focused on some of the more distracting elements. There's also an extra added benefit, because it's going to be 2 of you on the call.
NSG: If your video mute off, that means that you can make gestures to one another.
NSG: you can have a separate conversation. You can react to something that's happening on their end, unbeknownst to them that could potentially help you dig deeper and gain more insights as you go. You can go on mute and like comment about something, or go ask about this next or this is really interesting. So it's a really good collaborative means as well, and and I just honestly like frankly like, prefer phone for the most part, unless it's a more. You know, a session like this.
Ankur Toshniwal: 1 1 question about that. So I think it makes a lot of sense after like kind of thinking about it. Sometimes
Ankur Toshniwal: it's not. I don't know. Like if someone asked for it or for like a video call, and it would be just like awkward to like
Ankur Toshniwal: not put your video on right like, if they have it on. Or do you just kind of like, say that upfront.
NSG: Ask like, Hey, like, you know, we we prefer to do this video off. I think it'll allow us to just focus on the conversation, and you know there's there's a lot of ways to do it honestly, but it shouldn't be too big of a deal. Now, if it is important to them to be on video if that would make them more comfortable.
NSG: do it, you know, like, get the progress. But I think by and large you should default to no video.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, just to give an example. I know, it can be kind of awkward to do video off with the assumption that everything is video on these days. How Jake does it on his calls is he'll join the call camera on.
Chloe Lannert: Give the spiel about the research and what he's trying to accomplish like talks through the learning question a little bit, and the the moment they're trying to interview around, and then he'll say, me and my co-founder are going to go camera off, so we don't lead you with our faces. You're welcome to keep your camera on. Turn it off, whatever but he, like blames himself, and is like, I don't want to affect.
Chloe Lannert: You. Got like your opinion and your responses with my face, and then it's a really quick. Everyone goes camera off. You still have the moment of connection face to face. But then the interview is done. Camera.
Ankur Toshniwal: Appreciate it. That's really helpful. Thank you.
NSG: Solid. Thank you, Chloe.
NSG: Very good.
NSG: alright. Few more things. One. We talked about taking notes again making sure that you're taking real time notes is key. A lot of people prefer handwritten. It seems to work a lot and and and really good for a lot of people. I'm actually a not handwritten person because I hate my handwriting. So I tend to do mine. I tend to type it out. But either way.
NSG: whatever works.
NSG: and then ultimately the debrief. So timeline Jtvd statement, a list of you know the forces of progress. Malas, you're going to learn about that. MALA. Stands for more about less about.
NSG: That is a way for you to plot what they're
NSG: energy and needs were more about as opposed to what they were less about. So what were the trade-offs here? So you're literally like mapping out the contrast? In the energy.
NSG: So for your 1st interview, just to give you a little brief, like kind of overview here. You got this from the mattress interview, too. But you introduce yourself like Chloe just said what Jake does.
NSG: Thank him for taking the time to talk to. You ask for permission to record.
NSG: You set expectations. No, right or wrong, answers we're gonna ask very like a specific hyper. Detailed questions, you know. Forgive us for that if you can't remember something that's okay. And also, this is the other important thing, because customers tend to ramble. Interviewees tend to talk for a while about a lot of stuff, and they get really excited to do it.
NSG: Be mindful of that. You're gonna potentially interrupt them from time to time, and it's not admit out of any disrespect, but more so. Just there are times. I want to interrupt you, to clarify something, or to make the most out of your time.
NSG: so you make sure you do it in a respectful way. But be mindful. This will be important when it comes to making things sufficient, because I I have heard a lot of anecdotes and stories of founders that feel so bad they don't want to cut their customers off and end up having an hour long interview.
NSG: Right? And that's not a good use of most of you. All's time. Every now and then, if it's going good and you like it, run with it. I have had founders. Tell me examples of interviews that go along, and they end up, you know, interviewing somebody that becomes a customer and stuff like that which is cool. But just make sure that you have organization around the process.
NSG: By the way, Claire was, I'm not monitoring the chat. So if there's anything in there that's important, feel free to bubble it up.
Chloe Lannert: Yep.
NSG: Again. Focus on energy. Walking. You know people through their day when they purchased it, the moment of purchase working backwards, getting the context and the story around it.
NSG: and and then also a few other examples of like comparative questions here. So why do it virtually? Why not get into your car and drive to the doctor. That's very specific. So if you ask one question that could be seen as generic, but you follow up with a few other refining elements to it. That's great. People tend to, unfortunately, in interviews. Just ask a vague
NSG: question without giving more narrow specificity or context, and that could limit where the customer goes with what they have to say to you.
NSG: as far as what they say in response, like, oh, something was fast or installed fast. It installed fast in just under 2 min. The last program took 5 min to install. So if all you hear is it installed fast? Follow up. Okay, well, what do you mean by fast
NSG: as fast 10 min, 5 min, 1 min. So always asking probing questions that give you more context
NSG: to all those dimensions of functional, dimensional, functional, emotional and social dimensions. That's gonna be key.
NSG: I bought this new laptop. And it's really good. Well, what do you mean by good
NSG: so the energy and the inflection in their voice, and the the the volume, the way that they say something could even give you more insight. That's noteworthy and worth making note of but just making sure that you don't accept
NSG: things at the face, and you've unpacked and zoomed in, and all the right areas that you've identified. Energy.
NSG: Why don't you know how much RAM you got versus? I mean? What's RAM, anyway? You know what I mean. So you're trying to level with them. You're trying to almost be conversational as opposed to antagonistic or critical, because every now and then you might question them in a way that could be either judgmental or interpreted as such without your intention. So this is more just like practice language for you to think about how to do that.
NSG: Why were you at the doctor as opposed to? I've got a personal question, and if you don't want to answer it, it's okay.
NSG: But why were you at the doctor?
NSG: So there's a way to like go about asking for more sensitive information that's very mindful and respectful to keep them open and comfortable, sharing that information with you. So
NSG: for you all, I think this is actually going to be really key for some of the b 2 b examples we have, because every now and then you're going to ask about something going on in work, and they're not sure what they can say or not say. So each of you all will have to use your own domain knowledge to know what's kosher, and what would be comfortable to frame something as or what they'd be willing to share. I'm thinking about legalese in particular, right? So that's a really good place where there's going to be some nuance with Chris, and how you approach. You know, having conversations with folks about how they're spending their time.
NSG: Given that sensitivity. I tend to see that with finance, health, and legal
NSG: as as the big categories where there's even more like resistance. But once you overcome it, and you get good at it. It's like a walk in the park.
NSG: Few more left. Never argue with them
NSG: like, I said. Argue with each other.
NSG: So this is another reason to have someone else on the call with you, so that you all can kind of play good cop back cop
NSG: as you conduct your interviews, and when it
NSG: you really care about digging in in an area.
NSG: But they're not opening up
NSG: right. They're they're closed, or they feel like they have nothing else to say, and you've kind of hit a crossroads
NSG: find another way to get there, but don't push in the exact same way, and just repeat yourself, or ask the same kind of question.
NSG: So
NSG: sometimes understanding and unpacking either a trade off or a comparison, or like Clay said again. Think about the last time you made the same, you had the same need, but you made a different decision or choice. What did you do? Find other ways to move them along the timeline than just sticking with the same set of questions.
NSG: Be really careful going back to what Anker asked about before not to provide any hypotheticals or generalizations. So one question that you all probably have asked in your entrepreneurial career of a customer is, would you?
NSG: Would you XYZ.
NSG: Are you willing to? XYZ. All of these notions of what they might do in the future as if they're an expert on understanding their own consumer behavior.
NSG: you know, rationally and completely and logically, absolutely not. We make so many irrational logical decisions. Outside of the bubble of the context. So making sure you get all the context to understand that is key. The forward looking conversations are better left, for
NSG: you know Qa. And solution interviews later, when you're trying to test your product. But that's not what we're trying to teach you right now with this
NSG: again, like I said, they're gonna you're gonna have some enthusiastic customers. They're gonna praise you. They're gonna respond with kindness. They're, gonna you know, like they're gonna talk to you about what they love about you, and they're gonna be so grateful. And they're gonna want to help you sometimes to a fault. But you don't want them to do that you want them to be honest with you about what's going on, and not just glaze over what problems might be, because they don't want to either offend you, or all in all, they're happy, so they don't want to talk about what's wrong.
NSG: That's not what you want here.
NSG: even if it's uncomfortable or embarrassing to hear from a customer about what the what the issues are with you.
NSG: So again, if you catch yourself thinking, that makes sense, stop and ask more questions.
NSG: Don't just fill in the gaps with what's in your head about what you already know we call this playing dumb.
NSG: So the idea is that like?
NSG: Even if you know the answer, or what they're about to say, act like you, don't
NSG: ask them to explain it. Ask them to unpack the language of what they mean by something, even if in your head you're like nodding like, Oh, yeah, of course we've seen this before. Don't leave it to chance. Make sure that they explain their version of it, because every now and then language from customer interviews translates into actual marketing sales, copy. It goes into the emails, it becomes the reframing of how we talk about our product or service and how we like sometimes we don't want to.
NSG: you know, cheat and like use a high value concept. So like zest, for example, likes to say that the the Duolingo for cooking
NSG: that's that's tricky, right? Because everyone's saying they're the uber for pets, or the whatever for dogs, or everyone's using some big company to explain their smaller company and not why they're going to be a big company someday. But I think it's really important to use more of your customers language as opposed to your own injected language, and I bet more than half of the people on this call if I pulled up your company website and I asked you, did the customer say that, or did you.
NSG: It's coming from somewhere else.
NSG: So also, like there's moments of disagreement right? Or they'll be really terse, and they'll clam up. Or maybe the person isn't particularly talkative or conversational that tends to happen sometimes in these interviews. One way that really helps open them up is you can repeat what you think you heard?
NSG: All right. So here's the story I have so far.
NSG: one really really creative thing or slick thing that Bob taught me as well is. Sometimes you can repeat the story
NSG: and intentionally get a detail wrong.
NSG: So share something that you don't think is correct, like, based on what you you heard and make. Oh, no, that's not what I said, or that's not what I meant.
NSG: And all of a sudden they now they're even more engaged and like interested in like refining and correcting you.
NSG: But again, product related questioning is
NSG: what you all are gonna like. Be very tempted to do. You're gonna start asking about your features, your product, your app, what works, what doesn't certain aspects to it? And again, remember, that's not the point, at least at this phase, and that you'll have a chance to ask them that later.
NSG: So here's a little cheat sheet of some of the questions that could potentially be asked to trigger the interview. But I will say this with a caveat.
NSG: You should not go in with a script.
NSG: You should not have a set of premeditated questions that you're going to go through and make sure you ask each person that you interview.
NSG: Does anybody know why anybody guess why? I don't think you should have a script or premeditated questions.
Ankur Toshniwal: Probably not listening to them
Ankur Toshniwal: like, if you're not like following their like, their train of thought might not follow your particular script, which means you're not actually listening to them. You're just kind of.
NSG: Exactly. But it's tempting at first, st right? Though, anchor, because, like in your head, you're like, well, I have a normalized data set.
NSG: If I ask all of my same interviewees the same set of questions. Then I'll get really valuable information, because I can compare and contrast right.
Ankur Toshniwal: I think that's why it always makes a difference when, like like, when someone when you actually care about the problem like you're like really engaged versus giving someone else's script. You just can't get the same results.
NSG: Completely agree. So the whole notion of
NSG: having a casual friendly conversation with someone to get to the actual insights
NSG: is in at at odds with the notion that I have a set of premeditated questions that I'm going to make sure I go through like a checklist.
NSG: So trust me when I tell you that I've done jobs interviews with probably over a hundred different, you know, products or companies. And you know, I've observed and have drawn experience from Bob, who's done over 3,000.
NSG: And given that experience, we're relatively confident
NSG: that you don't like. If you're good. At this.
NSG: the notion of having premeditated questions is, is nonexistent.
NSG: so get good at it or refine it, and we're ha! I'm happy to work with you all on this, and you know each of my team members are also trained with jobs and can join you guys for some of those conversations, too.
NSG: I heard someone's voice, but I'm not sure who spoke up.
Ankur Toshniwal: Oh, I I was. I was just saying what would be cool is if there was some software out there that could just take that organic conversation and map it directly to a rubric you already have, like.
Ankur Toshniwal: Hey, yeah, someone build that. If this.
NSG: Well, you know, I'll myself a little bit. I'm actively working on what you're describing, right, and I know what you're describing has also already been in part developed in house with with Bob and and team. That being said.
NSG: we have not and will not get close to the level of effectiveness of you humans
NSG: talking through the insights at this stage. Maybe it'll happen someday, and it could happen sooner than later. But I will say what I'm trying to get you all to do with this framework right now is one of the few things that you can do
NSG: that isn't as easily replaceable with technology today.
NSG: So you all have an advantage. If you want to leverage this of still understanding the human interest, side context and causality at the early stage of your customers
NSG: that's going to give you a disproportionate, unfair advantage given. How many people are trying to do less to understand their customers today?
NSG: Antoine.
Antoine: Free tip, do 3 or 4,
Antoine: and then feed them and generate 50 or 100 through a Gen. AI. System.
Antoine: You will, you will see kind of vectors of variability versus vectors of consistency.
Antoine: And but but kind of the important thing is, do 3 or 4 on your own, because that that gives you a level of insight and a level of ability to then kind of pass what is generated that's going to be
Antoine: very helpful.
NSG: Or do the whole process manually, and then try to train something to do what you did, and see what happens.
Antoine: Yeah, yeah, no, I'm I'm just. I'm just. I'm not saying not to do the whole process.
NSG: Yeah, yeah.
Antoine: Saying like you you need, you know the-the-
Antoine: I mean there, there's there's value in in in everything. But but I I do. I do wonder what what it will provide to to just kind of generate a little bit of viability, because that's that's the one issue with this that you go very deep.
Antoine: and then you transfer the extrapolation to how much you can extrapolate from these X number of deep discovery discussions. And and there's there's ways to kind of
Antoine: match or kind of
Antoine: Get a sense of how much you can extrapolate or not. And I I suspect that there's there's a lot that can be do with the done with the Gen. AI. On on that.
NSG: We'll see. I'm curious, and I'm excited to learn more from you all. I would just encourage you not to make any. Don't! Don't. Don't take any shortcuts here.
NSG: It will not serve you. I I guarantee it, and I think the the further down this path you go one way to know that you're doing it right
NSG: is by interview 8, 9, or 10. You all heard Jake mention this on Friday.
NSG: You start to predict what they're going to say.
NSG: So. That's when you know you're cooking when you've done it right is you're starting to have the interviews. And you're like, Oh, okay, they're sliding into this job now, like, okay, they fit into this category. Or this is what's going to happen. So it's a really magical moment when you've done that because that actually tells you that you've done it right
NSG: when you basically start to fill in the information as you're going. And as you hear them speak
NSG: so. It's a really cool moment, Anthony.
Anthony De Silva: Yes, hey? Yeah. Just going back to the screening criteria. I was wondering if it's okay for us to, I guess. Like talk to some people from Group A, we're already our customers. And then some people from group Brc, that might be using a competitor's product.
NSG: That's fine. But those are separate. Those are separate initiatives. Okay, so don't treat that like, that's all one jobs to be done process because it isn't
NSG: your screening criteria for your existing customers who hired you for a reason with context is different than the group that are competitive products
NSG: which might be different than the firing group.
NSG: So it's really important to keep those like kind of data sets separate because you're gaining different insights from them that you're gonna compare later.
Anthony De Silva: Yeah.
Anthony De Silva: Cheers.
NSG: If it were up to me, I would recommend choosing one and going deep first, st and then transferring over to another category rather than trying to grab bag different, you know, context or screening criterias at once if you can avoid it.
Anthony De Silva: Okay.
NSG: Aria.
Paria: Yes, thank you so much. For the great information you shared with us, Neil. My question is more very like simple one. Actually the point that you mentioned about like, when you are going to the like to the like details, it's better to have the camera in the offline mode, and just to talk, not make any
Paria: kind of any impact on the like, you know the answers. So when you're interviewing, and if you want to like. You are kind of. You start with the like broad scale, and you narrow down your questions and go to the details right? But how should I know? Like.
Paria: because people are different sometimes, if you make a lot of so much details, questions from your like customer there, maybe they will be like kind of a little like frustrated, or they don't feel comfortable to to share those type of very much detailed information. And and if I don't see their kind of facial impressions. How can I decide? Shall I proceed with the like more details? Or should I stop here? This is the boundary where I have to stop.
NSG: That's a great question. Yeah. So it'll ultimately be on you to like, feel out how to do that effectively in your own way. Right. Each of us have certain personalities and and styles. But that being said, I think you'll just have to trust me for now that not using video is gonna better serve you to do that. I believe it will. But you'll have to find out. So nothing is gonna replace reps here for all of you like you're gonna have to get into the field and start having conversations, and the 1st ones won't be good.
NSG: It it'll be that like you're gonna stumble over your words. You're gonna say the wrong thing. You're gonna ask the wrong question. You might get nervous, like all those things will happen. And that's okay. My ask is that you throw up a few interviews for sacrifice, and be willing to be wrong or be bad in order to get good, that's all. It's gonna take, though. But you'll get there
NSG: all right. Neural defend.
Neural Defend: Yeah. Hi, Hi, Neil, I am Shiva here. So right now, we are dealing with one of the client. Okay, so we are kind of educating, and we are kind of creating some awareness about the defects.
Neural Defend: You know. So the client is more you know, surprised. And their system can be, I mean, defeated by the default kind of attacks the thing is like they are more into the problem, and they not talking about how we are. How, as a neuro, different solving the problem.
Neural Defend: So is this any kind of concern because they understand the problem after we showcase, you know, after we after we proved.
Neural Defend: And they are more completely into that the problem statement only. And we had only limited conversation on the product.
Neural Defend: And Apis. So how can we? And I just want to know what is the situation of
Neural Defend: what is the mindset of the client, and how we can leverage this?
Neural Defend: Or are we going the right way?
NSG: So what you want, you want to get more product insights from them than what you've received so far. Is that what I'm hearing.
Neural Defend: No, no, yeah. See? they want to integrate our product. Let's assume that. And they were talking about the problem. Only the problem statement only. But they are not
Neural Defend: not paying you right.
Neural Defend: What Neil.
NSG: They're not paying you.
Neural Defend: They're not not paying us so.
NSG: So so my thought would be what you're doing right now with them is fine, like what you're trying to learn, because they haven't paid you. So there, there's not again bitch, and ain't switching right. What I want instead is for you all to interview
NSG: people who have hired an alternative that like neural defend like there's you have competitors. It's a crowded space. Who are some other people that businesses like the one you're dealing with have hired
NSG: and interview them about their purchase decision to go with those companies and those services. Once you unpack those insights, you don't have to do a jobs to be done. Interview with your potential customer right now.
NSG: You can get insights from these other people who've already hired companies like neural defend, and you can apply those insights to better serve the customer that you're trying to close.
Neural Defend: Does that make sense?
Neural Defend: Okay? Next next question, it makes sense. Actually, the next question is, what if we can't able to find any companies
Neural Defend: that hired the similar product like new.
NSG: Think that's going to happen.
Neural Defend: Are you gonna let that.
NSG: Happen.
NSG: There's no one. There's no one else on earth who's ever bought anything like neural defendant. We were studying that we could get in.
NSG: you know, contact.
Neural Defend: No, no, of of course they are. They are.
NSG: Okay. Then.
Neural Defend: Join.
NSG: That's the
NSG: so. That's the hunt, though. Just see like this is. I'm so glad you asked. This is the most important point that I want to make during this call for all of you.
NSG: Your competitors.
Neural Defend: Hmm.
NSG: Most of them are doing what you're doing.
NSG: which is hoping that they get it right. They're hoping that the the few questions they ask the surveys that they run. The internal conversations and brainstorming of their team
NSG: is all leading into them, making the right product choices.
NSG: There's this uncomfortable path that I'm trying to get you specific 10 companies. The special few to do that most people in your situation will not do.
NSG: which is the uncomfortable job of having
NSG: non sales product, related conversations with high potential customers
NSG: and unpacking their actual decision-making process.
NSG: and what trade-offs that they're currently going through for their struggling moments with their business purchasing decisions.
NSG: So if you all find those people, however uncomfortable, annoying, and difficult it will be. Not only is it good
NSG: proving ground for your.
NSG: you know, strength and fortitude as founders who need to fundraise from very, you know, dismissive Vcs.
NSG: But it's also going to be really helpful when it comes to your sales, strategy and process and confidence.
NSG: So again, like as uncomfortable and as difficult as it might be to find people who fit the right, very precise screening criteria that I've now coached you to define.
NSG: The more specific and the better you do it. Now.
NSG: the more time you'll save, and the more your mind will be blown. I literally got off a call right before this with the founder, who's
NSG: I think he's got 750 k committed on a 3 mil. Round, but he's more excited about the jobs to be done insights he has now than ever before, whereas in program he literally told me this. I hear this from a lot of founders like, I wish I listened to you in program, Neil. I didn't take it that seriously, but now I understand how important jobs to be done is
NSG: like, I've heard that from like, I can't tell you how many companies and founders. So literally, this is the call in session where everyone's kind of like, either passively listening or they're like, Yeah, okay, maybe. Or I'll try, or whatever. I'm not sure how effective this is gonna be.
NSG: And then a year from now you'll come back and I'm gonna replay this call at some point for one of you when we're doing one of our little strategy sessions. It'll be great.
NSG: Chris.
Chris Wong: Yeah, I was kind of going in a little bit deeper into that. The question on finding competitor like the direct and alternative competitors. I guess one of the things we struggle with is we're we're going after law firms and for our direct competitors they'd be the automated timekeeper. Using AI, but indirect alternatives would be like manual timekeepers, so manual in the sense of, you know, going and in hearing a time, and then and then entering manually their descriptions.
Chris Wong: I don't know. It's it's a little bit hard to find who's using the direct competitors products for us right now, because, you know, we, we can go online and look at their website and see who's like commented like who did well or who who likes their product.
Chris Wong: But from there it's kind of hard finding these law firms. So that's the one thing we struggle with, and I don't know if there's any insights there trying to find these direct competitors? Or should we be really focusing on just kind of manual alternatives? Yeah, this might be a specific, too specific question. But that's the one that we're facing right now. Yeah.
Ankur Toshniwal: Can I ask a question to you.
Andrew Fernandes: We have the same same thing.
Ankur Toshniwal: Yeah, I I have a question. Maybe you can help us with that, too. So is there? Maybe instead of like a direct competitor is there like a particular workflow or process that defines it? That's like an aggregate of maybe a couple of different things.
NSG: Who.
Ankur Toshniwal: Right? Like the problem again.
NSG: Yes.
Ankur Toshniwal: We under. We we know this exists, too, for what we're solving as well, but we're having trouble putting an exact finger on it. We're kind of going through that same thing. I think, Chris, where it's like.
Ankur Toshniwal: we know people do this. We've watched them do it.
Ankur Toshniwal: But to define it, and to put a specific individual product on it is tough. But sometimes I think what we're trying to do is like.
Ankur Toshniwal: define the workflow rather than a particular individual product. I don't know if that exists, for you know, legally as part of it, but
Ankur Toshniwal: that'd be worth.
NSG: Go ahead, Chloe.
Chloe Lannert: What are they paying to solve?
Chloe Lannert: So, Neil, correct me here? But the process, and, like the starting point, can be different. As long as they're paying
Chloe Lannert: for something new to fix their problem.
Chloe Lannert: I'll I'll let you add more detail. But
Chloe Lannert: the only issue that's standing out to me with those
Chloe Lannert: situations you're bringing up? Is are they paying to change something? Did do they have a switching moment that you can run the interview about? If they do, I think you're set. But if it's just collecting details on their existing manuals process, then you don't have the hiring moment that'll actually lead to to new insights.
NSG: I couldn't agree more, Chloe, that was very well said. The struggling moment is the key to anchor yourself around Chris and Ankar and others.
NSG: regardless of of what the tool is, whether it's indirect direct, whether it's an amalgamation of tools and resources on your side or Chris on your end. If it's hard to navigate in to find which. Firms have hired those specific tools.
NSG: That's the hunt
NSG: that is actually the good part, like, I know it's annoying. But I gotta say, think about it.
NSG: Who else on this earth will have that information other than you?
NSG: Right, if you're able to actually find out who these people are, in whatever creative ways you need to, who the customers are of your competitors. But if there's a way for you to figure that out by God, do it
NSG: because all of a sudden you're going to know why different tools are being hired for actual reasons rather than the super boring founder matrix of here are all the features that we have that they don't and look investor. We're better because we do more. That's the most generic and most commonplace thing I see from everyone, and I'm not trying to be too antagonistic about it. But, like, do better.
NSG: you know, like you guys should be able to educate your investors, your stakeholders, and your team
NSG: on what the actual nuance differences are not just of your feature set, but of the needs of the consumers that you all are best equipped to serve as opposed to the ones you're not.
NSG: I saw a bunch of people on mute.
NSG: Come at me, Carlo.
carloscaglia: I was. I was just thinking, hmm.
carloscaglia: I mean, because it's not question. But like crystal, like we've been in very similar situation, cause we?
carloscaglia: We're going almost against very manual processes. And then we kind of go against traditional advertising agencies. So it's very hard for us to figure out. Once
carloscaglia: a brand is with an agency until it's too late that they've committed like a yearly spend to it. And so around this one we've kind of, I guess, found
carloscaglia: 2 ways that one of them, if you're fighting against like a manual internal process, is literally just understanding, like
carloscaglia: how much of a pain it is because you can quantify time, and you can relate time to money.
carloscaglia: But then you just understand, like
carloscaglia: the pain that goes into it, and they'll like that face would be like, oh, I just spent so much time looking for this, or like, you just have to filter through an excel. And you're like, okay. Well.
carloscaglia: you realize that? Yes, it's the time. But it's actually just the mental drain that the spending behind that one
carloscaglia: and then the other times is sometimes if you just
carloscaglia: reach out to the law firm in your case, not positioning that as a sales message or a sales pitch, but like just saying, I'm working on this. I'm not trying to sell anything. I just wanna find out a few things. Most people actually, really responsive to that. And they just want to help and then they'll give you the information that you need. Really.
carloscaglia: that's 1 thing that we saw when we were getting started.
NSG: Super, helpful Anthony.
Anthony De Silva: Yeah, I guess not to. I don't know the complication of this, but, as you're aware, you know, we have a nuance, and
Anthony De Silva: who our customers are. Our customer is the home buyer who's paying for it. But you know, sometimes the realtor is like, Hey, I need an inspection like X date for this customer.
Anthony De Silva: So they're the ones who's placing the order or on the customer's behalf.
Anthony De Silva: And we
Anthony De Silva: I didn't identify the realtor as our repeat client, because they're the one they have multiple homebuyers, and they're the ones who are routing the order to us. So as we think about this.
Anthony De Silva: would they all fit into that group a of the customers who are
Anthony De Silva: like we should interview? Or would they be like in 2 separate buckets?
NSG: It sounds like 2 separate buckets, unless.
NSG: like, like, what? What do you think the overlap is between those 2 groups.
Anthony De Silva: Yeah, I think, like, in terms of the progress that they're looking for is like
Anthony De Silva: to find out the issues of the home and then to renegotiate the deal and close the deal.
NSG: But it sounds like they have different underlying motivations for what they want.
NSG: Okay, so I would. I would separate those 2 out in in that case, unless, as you start to have those interviews like. So one example of what I would do tactically is, I interview one of each
NSG: and feel it out and go. Okay, this is more similar than different. Or there's a clear difference in how this is going. And then you kind of kind of build off of that from there.
Anthony De Silva: Got it? Thanks.
NSG: Andrew.
Andrew Fernandes: I think. Carlos said. It can be better to ask for
Andrew Fernandes: feedback or input on on certain questions rather than frame as a sales call, which I agree. Does anyone have tips on how best to do that to increase response rate? Because something I found particularly in the finance space, which is a lot of what we're targeting people are like, I don't have time for this. I don't care what this is. So how do you frame interest calls
Andrew Fernandes: in a way that'll increase response rate. Obviously, being able to provide value is one. But any anything more specific.
NSG: Carla, were you gonna say something?
Anthony De Silva: Andrew. What kind of finance force works were you looking for?
Anthony De Silva: Specifically.
Andrew Fernandes: What kind of finance folks.
Anthony De Silva: Yeah, because corporate finance investments or like.
Andrew Fernandes: Yeah. So we're largely going after the trading space. So largely quantitative trading primarily in particular, people in data strategy teams at those firms.
Alex Nativelle: I don't know if that's gonna be really helpful for you. But what I found is that if you generally come from a place or like, I'm building this company. I really want your insight. It's gonna be very short. This is not a sales call, and maybe try to incentivize like, like, let's grab lunch. It's on me, or coffee on me, or, you know, like some kind of small gestures, and then really make sure that afterwards you send them a lot. It's
Alex Nativelle: usually working really. Well.
NSG: Like that's not like a hack or something. But yeah, just generally coming from the herds, you know.
Alex Nativelle: And people usually love.
Alex Nativelle: They're like, Yeah, go for it. So sometimes it works no finance or others. But.
Andrew Fernandes: It's oval.
NSG: Meg, I noticed you on mute. Did you want to add something.
Meg Hall: Nothing right now.
NSG: Okay, cool.
NSG: Alright? Yeah, that that's all helpful. I I think that's that's good advice, Andrew. On top of that. Strangely enough at any level. Turns out
NSG: people really dig Amazon gift cards.
NSG: So when in doubt that works, strangely enough, I've never had to do it. But many and many of my founders reported back on that being affected so
NSG: cool. Alright, I'm gonna wrap up here, and then I want some of you. Whoever keep it in your mind. Now, whoever's willing to share
NSG: your screening criteria that you submitted in the thread elsewhere, or are willing to bring up and talk through. We'll do a couple of examples to to close out of refining it together as a group.
NSG: So once you do your 1st interview, you'll do more, Antoine. Sorry.
Antoine: No happy to share.
NSG: Okay, got it? Yeah, yeah, we'll we'll we'll activate you first.st Great so
NSG: as you're doing your interviews, patterns start to emerge.
NSG: Something tempting is going to happen after you do 3 or 4 good ones.
NSG: You're going to want to stop
NSG: and take what you've learned and immediately get to work.
NSG: You're already gonna have an idea. You're already gonna get excited about what you've learned. And you already think you're gonna know what you need to do to address what you've seen.
NSG: It's really exciting when that happens. But
NSG: I just really want to emphasize how important it is for you to stay the course.
NSG: stick to the process, get to the 10 to 15, interview like over the line
NSG: before you take that next step.
NSG: have conversations and discussions with us, or amongst your team, or both.
NSG: because so many people get trigger happy as soon as you realize that this works and you're learning things that you never known before.
NSG: and those insights could become super exciting and infectious very quickly.
NSG: And because you've it's it's it's likely that you really haven't experienced anything like this for your business yet where you know this much about your customers, and the more nuanced aspects of what would be really, really beneficial to them.
NSG: So just stay the course and be disciplined about it. I trust you you will be better off for it.
NSG: Once we do the clusters then we turn them into a few jobs to be done. Statements like you saw with Jake's write up. We have a framework for this that we'll share with you as well, but you'll ultimately walk away with 2 or 3 different jobs that your categories of customers are hiring you to do.
NSG: and you'll have to come to this really important decision point of.
NSG: do we do all 3 jobs.
NSG: or do we focus on one?
NSG: Do we siphon off the customers that we could still keep or get more of.
NSG: because we think we can do a better job or have a better time, or do a better job for these customers in this subgroup instead. So you're gonna have to make some difficult and uncomfortable trade-offs potentially.
NSG: or you could try to do it all. But that's a risk as well, unless your product is already accidentally addressing multiple different jobs without you changing anything about it for those different subgroups of users. So there's a lot of nuance thinking that gets into product development that will activate going into month. 2 of techstars but month, one for me. What I have to offer for you all is implementing this framework
NSG: deeply, so that is ingrained and embedded into the DNA of your company in perpetuity.
NSG: So
NSG: again, this will become a foundational source of truth for you all. It'll hopefully encapsulate the essence of everything you've learned. There's a part 3 that I'm going to get into tomorrow, which tells a few more actual stories, my own and a few other examples that I think will bring this over the line and finish the job, and then we'll do a live demonstration of it tomorrow as well. But that's the content for today.
NSG: Antoine has raised his hand to offer up the 1st screening criteria. But before we get into that.
NSG: I want to make sure that what I just covered is understood and
NSG: process properly. So, what other remaining questions, thoughts, insights, reactions. Do you all have? Because
NSG: people tend to go back to this and wish that they had dug deeper.
NSG: So I just wanted to give you all space to like. Talk it out with me a little bit more, if need be.
carloscaglia: Did you see this as like
carloscaglia: a 1 off? Or should you have a sort of like
carloscaglia: repeat schedule like maybe you do them. I don't know. Once a year, every 6 months, every quarter like it feels like something as you evolve. Business changes, everything changes so it feels like if you keep it as a 1 off.
carloscaglia: there's not much.
carloscaglia: But or is it fine to give it as a 1 off.
NSG: Yeah, if this is a 1 off approach for you. If any of you all treat this, what I'm I'm trying to teach you as a 1 off.
NSG: I have failed. You
NSG: like I have. I have fundamentally like, messed up my job by not demonstrating to you how important it is to continuously learn about your customers.
NSG: so I don't care about the label.
NSG: The credit
NSG: like you don't have to call it jobs to be done like none of that matters to me, and it shouldn't matter to any of you, either. Those are just labels for things. What matters is that I know my customer and what they need. And I'm continuously learning about what's important, about keeping them happy, retaining them and getting more of them.
NSG: That's what matters for each and every one of you.
NSG: I'm hoping that this process
NSG: you take seriously enough to understand the benefits of why you'd incorporate it into some sort of normal cadence, Carlo, so it could be monthly. It could be quarterly, it could be every 6 months. It's all dependent on the nature of your business and your situation right.
NSG: I can imagine, optifab given the types of customers that you all have, it might be a longer timetable for you to do rounds of jobs to be done. Interviews given that the manufacturers that you're dealing with probably take a long time to get on the phone with and deal with and whatnot. But there's some of you that have businesses where you could, because you have so many recurring, and new customers coming in
NSG: have a more frequent schedule for getting Jtb. Insights or customer discovery work.
NSG: But all in all, I love that you asked that question, Carlo, because, like
NSG: if I haven't said it so far, it should be obvious that this is something that you
NSG: are already doing. I'm just trying to give you a better way of doing it, Meg.
Meg Hall: I think there's 1 thing that I'm struggling with, which is like, you know, it's supposed to be when they hire you right, which, like we have a a buyer that's like at the sea level, right? That typically brings us in. And I almost wanna interview the end users to know like when they come back to us. If that makes sense like and like what they want out of it. Not necessarily like we, kinda
Meg Hall: we, we have our assumptions. And like, we kind of know a lot more about like, why the sea level brings us in. But it's like the the end user. What's their incentive to bring us in, and that's kind of I don't know if that's bad, because there's no exchanging of money, but they are going to us for a reason, you know, so like the end users, I almost I get. I get torn. If we should look up the what like interview the end users more.
NSG: Well, that's a different set, right? So so those are 2 very valuable sets of interviews that you should conduct to be clear right? So the the users that you're talking about
NSG: they're struggling, someone's struggling, and they're doing something instead of sales. Play right now. Right? So whatever they're doing, you're interviewing them around that hire. They hired something else to make progress at some point. What was the decision making process for them to adopt that way of doing things. And what were they struggling with? You can do those insights and run that experiment that doesn't take away from you getting to know the C-level people who have to make the decision to make the purchase.
Meg Hall: Those are just.
NSG: 2 different sets of interviews.
Meg Hall: And you don't want for us to do like 3 of this bucket, 3 of that bucket, 3 of this other bucket you want.
NSG: Absolutely not.
Meg Hall: 8.1.
NSG: Yeah, exactly. So. I hope that's crystal clear to everyone.
NSG: We're not. This is not a buffet. You know what I mean, where I'm taking different categories of customers, and if I do, 10 yay, no, it has to be the 10 to 15 within a particular screening criteria subdomain.
NSG: That's when this works. It does not work when you're interviewing different types of groups with different situations and struggling moments, 2 or 3 at a time.
NSG: There are a lot of people who Google jobs to be done. And then they try to do what you're just like, what like do that? And then they say, Oh, it doesn't work.
NSG: And I'm like, yeah, cause you don't even know how it works.
NSG: So.
Meg Hall: Got it. Thank you.
NSG: and then the other big mistake that people make is the hypothetical piece, it's like they're interviewing people not around a purchase. But around the idea that they fit their customer profile. So they think they have the problem. So they talk about their thoughts, about a problem rather than their actions of solving it.
NSG: So again, like the whole grounding nature of this approach is
NSG: like, we're interviewing people around causality and actual actions and behavior taken as opposed to hypothetical ones.
Ankur Toshniwal: Yeah, to be clear. I wanted to make me what I was saying before is which we answered later, was the process of actually picking users I wasn't talking about in the in the actual meeting of like, you know, hypothetical. It was about what you what you answered later. Was like.
NSG: Cool.
Ankur Toshniwal: Process of actually, how do you in the back office? How do me and Andrew? How do you know the co-founding, the the team actually figure out which users to pick, to actually do the interview with and be.
NSG: Understood. Yeah. And and I will do that custom for each and every one of you. By the way, like each of you, deserve a different refined answer on that. And that's my job and our team's job to help give you all feedback on whether you have that right.
Ankur Toshniwal: Yeah, cause it's just there's a lot of depth. And and wanna make sure we're solving a super neat, like a very painful problem. And and I think the you know, I think we don't. The experience that you guys have is super insightful.
NSG: Yeah, the fancy startup language to it is beachhead, you know, like what? Whoever that early like category, the early adopter, the innovator category. That's what we're looking to talk to first, st
NSG: Carla. I saw you on mute.
carloscaglia: Yeah, just one thing that that popped to mind that work for us. We've got like a new newsletter that goes out every month.
carloscaglia: and I think it's pretty standard pretty easy.
carloscaglia: at least from us to do when we just talk about industry insights. There's nothing promotional like salesy.
carloscaglia: and obviously, people from our industry sign up to it
carloscaglia: just to see what's going on. And maybe we've never interacted with them. But what we do is that we when they set up to Newsletter, we don't send it as like an automated mail chip is like we send them a human email. And then that gets into like a quite nice personalized email chain. And you just get on a chat with them. Be like.
carloscaglia: hey? By the way.
carloscaglia: kind of a quick chat with you. Ask a few questions, and you know they've they've already shown interest in what you're doing. But you haven't. You haven't sold them anything you haven't like
carloscaglia: been saying, Oh, let me sell you this. I wanna have 15 min discovery call. You've already built a bit of a bridge with them.
carloscaglia: And so, yeah, I was just thinking about what you asked before. Both anchor and Chris, and that popped to mind.
NSG: Yes, I love that. You're building community and you're also building a lot of goodwill and trust.
NSG: So then people would are more willing to talk to you and respond to you because of that. And Carlo also. I think you sent me and Chloe a copy of that, too, which is really cool. So thanks for sharing.
NSG: All right, Antoine, you ready.
Antoine: Sure, sure, sure happy to.
NSG: Alright. So time permitting, we'll do this one. We might do a second one if anyone if if time permits. But what I want to do as a group is. Take a look at what Antoine wrote up as a screening criteria, and then as a group, let's give him feedback and see if there's any way to refine it. Given what we just talked about.
NSG: Do you want me to share my
NSG: I do.
Antoine: Share screen.
Antoine: Does that work.
NSG: Yep, we see it.
Antoine: Does it look like a screening criteria?
Antoine: Is it good?
Antoine: The criteria.
NSG: So so talk us through it. So so give everybody an overview of what.
Antoine: Okay. So since we have, since we have, like a very few minutes, let's only focus on one. We just have 2 kind of a market segments, educational institutions, and recruiters. Let's look at educational institutions.
Antoine: We've we've prospected and sold to educational institutions in France. So we want to go in the Us. We don't we? We think we should go back to people who hire the competing product because we don't have any customer in France.
Antoine: so
Antoine: the to me, the screening criteria. It's likely the head of career services, one of their associates, maybe a director. They hire the competing product service to improve how students prepare for job interviews. And maybe we want to be extremely specific about kind of specific products that they've hired. And so maybe it's higher view. Maybe it's you'd be. Maybe it's something else. Higher view being the market leader, you'd be the new kid on the block.
Antoine: and they actually purchased for a system, and that's kind of who we want to speak with.
Antoine: Let me pause here.
NSG: This is really good. Before I offer infinite comments or insights, I'm gonna let the group respond.
NSG: Perfect. Is it perfect? Everyone? There's no other questions feedback. You have on refining the situation by adding context, getting more details
NSG: about who they're interviewing, what they're going through. Why, they hired a career, you know.
Antoine: They don't want to do your job on your behalf. They are just letting you show us the way.
NSG: Everyone's open
NSG: their mouths waiting to get fed rather than you know. Joining me in the kitchen, put some salt and seasoning on there.
Chris Wong: I got a quick question, you said head of career services, and one of their associates is that is there a particular like segment of
Chris Wong: groups there. Because, yeah, it's kind of hard to tell if there's a more specific depart like, I understand the department within the company. But what types of companies, I guess, or types of.
Antoine: Oh, these are universities kind of
Antoine: schools that are graduating people so preparing people for for to enter the the workplace. And to your point. We. What we have a lot of experience in is a business schools. And so
Antoine: only they want to replicate exactly a business school and go after the top Mbas and go somewhere there.
Antoine: We might want to go into kind of a
Antoine: slightly different take? Well, at this point. We want to also open it up for discussion. So we prepare it in the context of a discussion, because we we do have a lot of preconceptions that come from the fact that we've talked with 5,150 different services in France, mostly business schools, engineering schools, and a little bit of more general kind of universities, but that's kind of the.
NSG: Are you all
NSG: sharing a lot more context just based on what Chris asked, and what Antoine said than what's written in front of you
NSG: right. I'm hearing engineering. I'm hearing business schools. I'm hearing universities within the Us that we need to focus on now, for as opposed to France, I'm sure that there are subtle differences and nuances to the purchasing process. Decision makers, different titles and roles budgets that they're coming from
NSG: the reasons why they're switching from a a legacy tool or having no tool at all? Did they have another tool that they're switching this with? Or were they doing some sort of manual process before there's so many other details and questions that you could layer in here that might be helpful. But, Antoine, I will say what you have written on its own before adding anything else that we just said is actually quite good.
NSG: So you understood the assignment, and I think you did a great job as a starting point. Everything that I just mentioned that you just mentioned, and that Chris was asking about are ways to further color it. If you and your team at this point think it's helpful to be more narrow
NSG: if you don't think it is, and you think what you have here is enough to start having conversations. Then you can very simply start having the interview. And then once you do, you do one or 2 and you go. Wow, okay, we should be way more specific, because we're getting different insights from people who fit too broad of a category.
NSG: So there's a few ways.
Antoine: It's.
NSG: Go from here.
Antoine: Yeah. And and just to go to go your guys's way. One thing and I I don't want to kind of over. I I think it's that's the the I'm so grateful that I'm benefiting from your collective feedback. And so I want other people to benefit from that as well. Just just one thing. That one key question we have is, oh, is it the head of carrier services who makes purchase decision? Or because because French schools are like
Antoine: 2,000 people. Large versus American schools are more like 25,000 people, large and.
NSG: Antoine. Sorry I'm gonna cut you off for one second. I just want to say, in 5 seconds we're hitting the 12 o'clock mark
NSG: drop if you need to drop. I'm still here. We can keep talking, Antoine. Thank you for this. I want to respect everyone's time and make sure you all. Don't feel like you're beholden to a call, so drop if you need to hit. We're in overtime.
NSG: Alright, Antoine, you were still saying about the 2,000
Antoine: No, no, I'm I'm just saying there's lots of of assumptions that we want to test but but I for me, it's really already very useful feedback. I'm I'm very kind of. I want to be cognizant of everyone's time.
NSG: This is just a demo. So again, like, I'll go through each of your submissions individually, and I'm going to spin up the to do list that goes through the entire process step by step, piece by piece, so there's no more ambiguity there. But at least we had a few meetings and conversations about it before I hit you all with all of the details and information.
NSG: Alright. Well, for those who I have left. How are we doing was that decent? Was that helpful and acceptable
NSG: good start to pre-program.